README.md, before:

# Awesome micro:bit [![Awesome](https://cdn.rawgit.com/sindresorhus/awesome/d7305f38d29fed78fa85652e3a63e154dd8e8829/media/badge.svg)](https://github.com/sindresorhus/awesome)

[![micro:bit logo](https://i.imgur.com/rYLbkBh.jpg)](https://www.microbit.org)

A curated list of resources for the BBC micro:bit, a pocket-sized programmable board with a Bluetooth capable microcontroller, accelerometer, magnetometer, LED matrix, a couple of buttons, and accessible GPIO.

Inspired by the [Awesome lists](https://github.com/sindresorhus/awesome).

**Table Of Contents:**

- [Programming](#programming)
	- [Visual](#visual)
	- [Python](#python)
	- [Javascript / PXT](#javascript-and-pxt)
	- [C/C++](#cc)
	- [Other Languages](#other-languages)
- [Programming Tools](#programming-tools)
- [Mobile Apps](#mobile-apps)
- [Interface Chip](#interface-chip)
- [Hardware](#hardware)
	- [Interface Chip](#interface-chip)
- [CAD & 3D Printing](#cad--3d-printing)
- [Projects](#projects)
- [Articles](#articles)
- [Videos](#videos)
- [Teaching Resources](#teaching-resources)
- [Miscellaneous](#miscellaneous)


## Programming

### Visual

- [PXT](https://pxt.microbit.org) - Provides an in-browser emulator and a Blocks interface that generates JavaScript (TypeScript) code.
- [Microsoft Blocks](https://www.microbit.co.uk/app/#create:xczaux) - A Block interface that produces Touch Develop code. No longer in development and it's recommended to use PXT instead.
- [Code Kingdoms](https://www.microbit.co.uk/app/#create:tomwku) - A graphical interface that provides a transitioning experience from 'drag and drop' to text-based programming (JavaScript).
- [Scratch for BBC micro:bit](http://www.picaxe.com/BBC-microbit) - Using micro:bit with Scratch / S2Bot as a bluetooth 'games controller' (needs specific BLED112 Bluetooth dongle).
- [Open Roberta Lab](http://lab.open-roberta.org) - A block programming environment design for programming robots, it also supports the micro:bit by generating MicroPython.

### Python

- [MicroPython](http://microbit-micropython.readthedocs.io) - Port of MicroPython, a Python 3 implementation for microcontrollers and constrained environments.

##### MicroPython Editors

- [microbit.org Python editor](https://python.microbit.org) - The official online Python editor from the micro:bit foundation website.
- [microbit.co.uk Python editor](http://microbit.co.uk/app/#create:xyelfe) - Original Python editor from microbit.co.uk, contains an older version of MicroPython.
- [Mu](http://codewith.mu) - A "micro" editor for MicroPython and the BBC micro:bit.
- [create.withcode.uk](https://create.withcode.uk) - A Python online editor and simulator that supports the micro:bit MicroPython ([instructions](http://community.computingatschool.org.uk/resources/4479)).
- [Atom microbit-micropython](https://github.com/wendlers/atom-microbit-micropython) - micro:bit MicroPython support package for the Atom editor.

##### MicroPython Libraries

- [Servo](https://github.com/microbit-playground/microbit-servo-class) - A simple class for controlling servos on the microbit via PWM.
- [PCA9685](https://github.com/gingemonster/PCA9685-Python-Microbit) - A simple class for using the PCA9685 16-Channel 12-bit PWM/Servo Driver via I2C.
- [MAX7219](https://github.com/microbit-playground/matrix7seg) - MicroPython module for using a 7-segment display driven by a MAX7219 chip via SPI.
- [SSD1306](https://github.com/fizban99/microbit_ssd1306) - MicroPython library to control the OLED SSD1306 128x64 I2C with a micro:bit.
- [SSD1306 7seg](https://github.com/fizban99/microbit_ssd1306_7seg) - MicroPython library to use an SSD1306 OLED display as a 7 segment display.
- [HT16K33](https://bitbucket.org/thesheep/microbit-ht16k33) - MicroPython library for the HT16K33 LED matrix driver in multiple configurations (16x8, 8x8 or 8x8x2).
- [HC-SR04](https://github.com/fizban99/microbit_hcsr04) - Basic MicroPython library to read the distance from a HC-SR04 ultrasonic sensor using the SPI peripheral.
- [US-100](https://github.com/fizban99/microbit_us100) - Basic MicroPython library to read the distance from a US-100 ultrasonic sensor via UART.
- [KY038](https://github.com/fizban99/microbit_ky038) - MicroPython library to calibrate and use a sound sensor KY038, including clap counter functionality.

##### Python Libraries

- [MicroPeri](https://github.com/c0d3st0rm/microperi) - Run Python programs on your computer with the same micro:bit MicroPython API and connecting a micro:bit as an external peripheral device or sensor.
- [microbit_stub](https://github.com/casnortheast/microbit_stub) - A Python package that emulates the micro:bit as defined by the micro:bit MicroPython API.
- [bluezero](https://github.com/ukBaz/python-bluezero) - A Python package to interface with Bluetooth devices, with examples for the micro:bit.

##### Python Programming Tools

- [uFlash](https://github.com/ntoll/uflash/) - A utility for flashing the micro:bit with Python scripts and the MicroPython runtime.
- [MicroFs](https://github.com/ntoll/microfs) - A simple command line tool and module for interacting with the limited file system provided by MicroPython on the micro:bit.
- [Jupyter kernel for the micro:bit](https://github.com/takluyver/ubit_kernel) - This package allows Jupyter interfaces to run MicroPython code directly on the micro:bit.

### JavaScript and PXT

- [PXT](https://pxt.microbit.org) - The Programming eXperience Toolkit for the micro:bit provides an in-browser emulator, a Blocks interface, and JavaScript (TypeScript) editor.
- [Espruino JavaScript](http://www.espruino.com/MicroBit) - A JavaScript interpreter for microcontrollers. It also offers a WebIDE for written code and blocks.
- [Code Kingdoms](https://www.microbit.co.uk/app/#create:tomwku) - A graphical interface that provides a transitioning experience from 'drag and drop' to text-based programming (JavaScript).

##### Node.js Libraries

- [node-bbc-microbit](https://github.com/sandeepmistry/node-bbc-microbit) - Control a micro:bit from Node.js using BLE.

##### JavaScript Programming Tools

- [PXT Command Line Tool](https://www.pxt.io/cli) - Use the command line to program the micro:bit with PXT JavaScript. You can also run a local version of the PXT online editor.

### C/C++

- [C/C++ runtime](https://lancaster-university.github.io/microbit-docs/) - Guidance on how to start using the runtime in C/C++ including full documentation of the APIs, drivers, and types that make up the micro:bit runtime. Bluetooth documentation includes a link to the original `*.hex` file that ships on the micro:bit devices.
- [Arduino nRF5](https://github.com/sandeepmistry/arduino-nRF5/) - Arduino Core for Nordic Semiconductor nRF5 based boards, including the micro:bit.

##### C/C++ Editors

- [Micro:Pi](https://github.com/Bottersnike/Micro-Pi) - A C/C++ editor with serial monitor and deploy functionality. Written in Python with an installer (ATM Linux only, but could be manually installed in any OS) that includes all dependencies.

##### C/C++ Libraries

- [OneWire](https://github.com/adamboardman/microbit-onewire) - micro:bit OneWire Library, based upon Erik Olieman's mbed DS1820 lib.
- [neopixel](https://github.com/elmorg/uBit_neopixel) - Library for using neopixels with the BBC micro:bit.

### Other Languages

- [Touch Develop](https://www.microbit.co.uk/create-code#touchdevelopEditor) - A flexible, text-based programming language with an interactive visual component.
- [Rust on BBC micro:bit](https://github.com/SimonSapin/rust-on-bbc-microbit) - Describes the experience and steps of compiling Rust code for the micro:bit with and without interaction with the runtime DAL.
- [Forth](https://wiki.forth-ev.de/doku.php/en:projects:microbit:start) - Forth, a stack-based language, for the BBC micro:bit.


## Programming Tools

- [Vagrant C/C++ Development Environment](https://github.com/carlosperate/microbit-dev-env) - With a single command it creates a virtual machine with all the toolchain required to compile and flash C/C++ programs to the micro:bit (including  MicroPython).
- [micro:bit uploader](https://www.touchdevelop.com/microbituploader) - Windows application that monitors your Downloads folder and flashes any new programs to the micro:bit.
- [Kodu Controller](http://www.kodugamelab.com/bbc-microbit/) - Enables interacting with the microbit from Kodu Game Lab.
- [Simulink Coder Support Package](http://uk.mathworks.com/matlabcentral/fileexchange/60273-simulink-coder-support-package-for-bbc-micro-bit-board) - This package enables you to create Simulink models and automatically generate and deploy code on the micro:bit.
- [microbit for Dyalog APL on the Pi](https://github.com/APLPi/microbit) - Tools for using the micro:bit (via MicroPython serial connection) with the Dyalog APL programming language on the Raspberry Pi.
- [Gobot](https://gobot.io/documentation/platforms/microbit/) - Framework for the Go programming language to program devices in the real world. It can now the micro:bit via Bluetooth LE.
- [Microbit Unity](https://github.com/bLiGM/Microbit-Unity) - Unity scripts to allow the BBC Microbit to be used as a Unity Controller.
- [Haxe node BBC micro:bit](https://github.com/MatthijsKamstra/hx-node-bbc-microbit) - Control a BBC micro:bit from Node.js using BLE and the Haxe programming language.


## Mobile Apps

- [Official Android App](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.samsung.microbit) ([Source Code](https://github.com/Samsung/microbit)) - Pair, program and flash programs to the micro:bit via Bluetooth.
- [Official iOS App](https://itunes.apple.com/gb/app/micro-bit/id1092687276) - Pair, program and flash programs to the micro:bit via Bluetooth.
- [micro:bit Blue](https://github.com/microbit-foundation/microbit-blue) ([Android](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.bluetooth.mwoolley.microbitbledemo)) - Contains a series demos for interacting with the microbit using Bluetooth.
- [Bitty Software Apps](http://www.bittysoftware.com/apps.html) - A diverse collection of Android and iOS apps, going from data logging to audio pranks, you'll certainly find something of interest. 
- [Insight Mr Bit](http://www.insightresources.co.uk/microbit/page63.html) ([iOS](https://itunes.apple.com/gb/app/insight-mr-bit/id1175915875)) - Create simple programs in plain English to control the BBC micro:bit to do lots of useful things.


## Interface Chip

The USB Interface Chip is the microcontroller placed close to the battery connector. It provides the USB mass storage capability to load the micro:bit firmware using the Operating System file explorer.

- [DAPLink on micro:bit](https://www.mbed.com/en/development/hardware/prototyping-production/daplink/daplink-on-kl26z/) - The DAPLink is the default software running on the Interface Chip, this page contains information, update instructions, and the latest firmware.
- [DAPLink source code](https://github.com/mbedmicro/DAPLink) - Source code for the mbed DAPLink, contains the build configuration for the micro:bit.
- [J-Link OB Firmware](https://www.segger.com/bbc-micro-bit.html) - Offers the same flashing functionality than the DAPLink and expands it to include J-Link debugging.


## Hardware

Nothing yet.

## CAD & 3D Printing

- [Kitronik CAD Resources](https://www.kitronik.co.uk/blog/bbc-microbit-cad-resources/) - micro:bit CAD model from Kitronik.
- [Proto-PIC CAD Resources](https://www.proto-pic.co.uk/micro-bit-resources.html) - Proto-PIC products CAD resources.
- [Microbot Case](http://www.thingiverse.com/thing:1434797) - 3D printed case for the micro:bit in the shape of a robot.
- [micro:bit Stand](http://www.thingiverse.com/thing:2144500) - 3D printed stand for the micro:bit.
- [micro:bit Rover](https://www.myminifactory.com/object/microbit-rover-27013) - 3D printable parts to build a micro:bit robot rover.
- [Binary Watch](https://www.myminifactory.com/object/binary-watch-15257) - 3D printed watch case and strap for the micro:bit.


## Projects

All these projects contain steps and resources required for reproduction.

- [microbit.co.uk Site Index](https://www.microbit.co.uk/index) - The microbit.co.uk website contains an extensive list with all their projects and tutorials.
- [hackster micro:bit community](https://www.hackster.io/micro-bit/projects) - This hackster community contains user submitted projects for the micro:bit.
- [PXT Projects](https://pxt.microbit.org/projects) - List of micro:bit projects you can do with the PXT editor.
- [Quiz:bit](https://github.com/lancaster-university/quiz-bit) - micro:bit programs and a matching application for providing a quiz-voter-style service using micro:bits as the controls.
- [JUST DO IoT](https://hackaday.io/project/12164-just-do-iot) - Connect the micro:Bit to the LoRaWAN network, includes open source hardware microbit connector board.
- [Micro:Bob](https://hackaday.io/project/8643-microbob) - A simple bipedal robot controlled by a micro:bit.
- Coffee Timer ([1](https://www.norwegiancreations.com/2016/09/coffee-timer-part-1-the-first-prototype-based-on-the-bbc-microbit/), [2](https://www.norwegiancreations.com/2016/10/coffee-timer-part-2-low-power-wireless-on-the-bbc-microbit/), [3](https://www.norwegiancreations.com/2016/11/coffee-timer-part-3-enclosures/)) - Three part article describing how to augment a coffee maker with an micro:bit indicator, options for low power communication, and creating a custom enclosure.
- [Thermal Printer](http://www.suppertime.co.uk/blogmywiki/2016/12/microbit-thermal/) - Connecting and using a Sparkfun thermal till-roll printer.
- [Telescopic Light Sword](https://www.myminifactory.com/object/telescopic-lightsword-with-micro-bit-14598) - Project shows how to make your own Light Sword with the micro:bit, electronics, and 3D printed parts.
- [Micro Simon](http://mrtomsworld.blogspot.co.uk/2017/01/micro-simon.html) - Programming and connecting a micro:bit to a vintage MB Simon game.
- [Connecting a thermal printer to a BBC microbit](http://www.suppertime.co.uk/blogmywiki/2016/12/microbit-thermal/) - Connecting the micro:bit to a thermal till-roll printer to print a random poems or Christmas cracker jokes.
- [Alexa Weather On micro:bit](https://www.hackster.io/chen-tiebiao/weather-on-micro-bit-c79c19) - Creating an Amazon Alexa skill where the current weather can be asked and the result displayed on the micro:bit.
- [BBC Microbit Balloon Tracker](http://www.daveakerman.com/?p=2019) - Making a ballon tracker with a micro:bit connected to GPS and a LoRa transceiver to track and transmit its position.


## Articles

Useful Articles for developing on the micro:bit.

- [Getting Started Microbit & Microsoft’s new www.codethemicrobit.com Environment](https://blogs.msdn.microsoft.com/uk_faculty_connection/2016/08/01/getting-started-microbit-microsofts-new-www-codethemicrobit-com-environment/)
- [Offline C/C++ Development With The Micro:bit](http://www.i-programmer.info/programming/hardware/9654-offline-cc-development-with-the-microbit-.html)
- [Sending 'commands' from a micro:bit over Bluetooth](http://bluetooth-mdw.blogspot.co.uk/2016/07/sending-commands-from-microbit-over.html)
- [MultiWingSpan](http://www.multiwingspan.co.uk/micro.php) - A large collection of examples, instructions, and direction on how to use electronic components.
- [Modelling micro:bit data with the Bitty Data Logger App](https://www.stem.org.uk/elibrary/community-resource/289686/modelling-microbit-data-bitty-data-logger-app)
- [Getting Started with the micro:bit Bluetooth IO Pin Service](https://ukbaz.github.io/howto/ubit_ble_profile.html)
- [Using MQTT-SN over BLE with the BBC micro:bit](https://blog.benjamin-cabe.com/2017/01/16/using-mqtt-sn-over-ble-with-the-bbc-microbit)
- [The First Video Game on the BBC Micro:bit [probably]](https://hackernoon.com/the-first-video-game-on-the-bbc-micro-bit-probably-4175fab44da8) - Creating a game for the micro:bit, the MicroPython changes needed to increase performance and a general profile of its resources.


## Videos

- [MicroMonsters](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCK2DviDexh_Er2QYZerZyZQ) - A YouTube channel with tutorials to learn to code with your family.
- [micro:bit and Bluetooth](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLYOCnwH2UtBzhJ2nvn_DM3itz6GNVwrDu) - YouTube playlist with Martin Woolley's Bluetooth videos.
- [Video Series from The Maker Movies](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLD0HD_3AJljXDWoasq2x5gHmkKeV7cc-P) - A list of short, introductory videos for anyone wanting to get started with the micro:bit.


## Teaching Resources

- [microbit.org Teaching Resources](https://www.microbit.org/teach/)
- [IET micro:bit Teaching Resources](http://faraday.theiet.org/stem-activity-days/bbc-microbit/resources/index.cfm)
- [Code Club micro:bit projects](https://www.codeclubprojects.org/en-GB/microbit/)
- [Make with the micro:bit by Technology Will Save Us](http://make.techwillsaveus.com/bbc-microbit)
- [Grok Learning](https://groklearning.com/microbit/) - Provides an online MicroPython code editor, Blockly visual programming, full micro:bit simulator, curriculum-aligned teaching material and auto-marked problems.
- [Microbit For Primary Schools](http://mb4ps.co.uk)
- [101 Computing BBC micro:bit category](http://www.101computing.net/category/bbc-microbit/) - Computing challenges with the micro:bit to boost your programming skills or spice up your teaching of computer science.
- [Micro:bit Maths](https://microbitmathsblog.wordpress.com) - A blog exploring the BBC micro:bit in mathematics education.
- [micro:bit of Things](https://sites.google.com/view/microbitofthings/) - Notes on micro:bit project ideas for Key Stage 2 and 3.
- [The Brooke Primary School Space Programme](http://www.brooke.norfolk.sch.uk/brooke-space-programme/) - Project page documenting Brooke Primary School pupil's upcoming journey for launching a BBC micro:bit (on its own) into near-space, with experiments and sensor measurements.
- [FunWithMicrobit](https://github.com/MicrobitPolska/FunWithMicrobit) - FunWithMicrobit is a 6 hours workshop made by kids for the kids.
- [Year 7 micro:bit lessons](http://www.jonwitts.co.uk/year-7-microbit) - by Jon Witts, used to introduce students to the micro:bit and Python.
- [UCL’s BBC Micro:bit Tutorials](http://microbit-challenges.readthedocs.io/en/latest/) - Tutorial sheets that introduce micro:bit features with practical examples provided to invite students to design solutions to problems.
- [BBC micro:bit and Kodu Interact](https://www.kodugamelab.com/resources/#microbit) - Kodu is a visual programming language made specifically for creating games and allow interaction with the micro:bit.


## Miscellaneous

- [microbit Fritzing Part](https://github.com/topshed/FritzingParts) - Richard Hayler collection of Fritzing parts contains a model for the micro:bit.
- [micro:bit broadcast](https://microbit-broadcast.embeddedlog.com) - Free newsletter to stay up-to-date with the latest micro:bit news, articles, projects, and resources.
- [micro:bit-o-matic](https://pycomic.github.io/microbit.html) - Easily create micro:bit illustrations with custom LED matrix messages.


## License & Trademarks

[![CC0](http://mirrors.creativecommons.org/presskit/buttons/88x31/svg/cc-zero.svg)](https://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/)

To the extent possible under law, the authors have waived all copyright and related or neighbouring rights to this work.

This projects is not endorsed, sponsored or associated with the BBC. "BBC", "micro:bit", and their logos are trademarks of the BBC.

Commit message:

Add microbit.org Developer Community Info to the Interface Chip section

README.md, after:

# Awesome micro:bit [![Awesome](https://cdn.rawgit.com/sindresorhus/awesome/d7305f38d29fed78fa85652e3a63e154dd8e8829/media/badge.svg)](https://github.com/sindresorhus/awesome)

[![micro:bit logo](https://i.imgur.com/rYLbkBh.jpg)](https://www.microbit.org)

A curated list of resources for the BBC micro:bit, a pocket-sized programmable board with a Bluetooth capable microcontroller, accelerometer, magnetometer, LED matrix, a couple of buttons, and accessible GPIO.

Inspired by the [Awesome lists](https://github.com/sindresorhus/awesome).

**Table Of Contents:**

- [Programming](#programming)
	- [Visual](#visual)
	- [Python](#python)
	- [Javascript / PXT](#javascript-and-pxt)
	- [C/C++](#cc)
	- [Other Languages](#other-languages)
- [Programming Tools](#programming-tools)
- [Mobile Apps](#mobile-apps)
- [Interface Chip](#interface-chip)
- [Hardware](#hardware)
	- [Interface Chip](#interface-chip)
- [CAD & 3D Printing](#cad--3d-printing)
- [Projects](#projects)
- [Articles](#articles)
- [Videos](#videos)
- [Teaching Resources](#teaching-resources)
- [Miscellaneous](#miscellaneous)


## Programming

### Visual

- [PXT](https://pxt.microbit.org) - Provides an in-browser emulator and a Blocks interface that generates JavaScript (TypeScript) code.
- [Microsoft Blocks](https://www.microbit.co.uk/app/#create:xczaux) - A Block interface that produces Touch Develop code. No longer in development and it's recommended to use PXT instead.
- [Code Kingdoms](https://www.microbit.co.uk/app/#create:tomwku) - A graphical interface that provides a transitioning experience from 'drag and drop' to text-based programming (JavaScript).
- [Scratch for BBC micro:bit](http://www.picaxe.com/BBC-microbit) - Using micro:bit with Scratch / S2Bot as a bluetooth 'games controller' (needs specific BLED112 Bluetooth dongle).
- [Open Roberta Lab](http://lab.open-roberta.org) - A block programming environment design for programming robots, it also supports the micro:bit by generating MicroPython.

### Python

- [MicroPython](http://microbit-micropython.readthedocs.io) - Port of MicroPython, a Python 3 implementation for microcontrollers and constrained environments.

##### MicroPython Editors

- [microbit.org Python editor](https://python.microbit.org) - The official online Python editor from the micro:bit foundation website.
- [microbit.co.uk Python editor](http://microbit.co.uk/app/#create:xyelfe) - Original Python editor from microbit.co.uk, contains an older version of MicroPython.
- [Mu](http://codewith.mu) - A "micro" editor for MicroPython and the BBC micro:bit.
- [create.withcode.uk](https://create.withcode.uk) - A Python online editor and simulator that supports the micro:bit MicroPython ([instructions](http://community.computingatschool.org.uk/resources/4479)).
- [Atom microbit-micropython](https://github.com/wendlers/atom-microbit-micropython) - micro:bit MicroPython support package for the Atom editor.

##### MicroPython Libraries

- [Servo](https://github.com/microbit-playground/microbit-servo-class) - A simple class for controlling servos on the microbit via PWM.
- [PCA9685](https://github.com/gingemonster/PCA9685-Python-Microbit) - A simple class for using the PCA9685 16-Channel 12-bit PWM/Servo Driver via I2C.
- [MAX7219](https://github.com/microbit-playground/matrix7seg) - MicroPython module for using a 7-segment display driven by a MAX7219 chip via SPI.
- [SSD1306](https://github.com/fizban99/microbit_ssd1306) - MicroPython library to control the OLED SSD1306 128x64 I2C with a micro:bit.
- [SSD1306 7seg](https://github.com/fizban99/microbit_ssd1306_7seg) - MicroPython library to use an SSD1306 OLED display as a 7 segment display.
- [HT16K33](https://bitbucket.org/thesheep/microbit-ht16k33) - MicroPython library for the HT16K33 LED matrix driver in multiple configurations (16x8, 8x8 or 8x8x2).
- [HC-SR04](https://github.com/fizban99/microbit_hcsr04) - Basic MicroPython library to read the distance from a HC-SR04 ultrasonic sensor using the SPI peripheral.
- [US-100](https://github.com/fizban99/microbit_us100) - Basic MicroPython library to read the distance from a US-100 ultrasonic sensor via UART.
- [KY038](https://github.com/fizban99/microbit_ky038) - MicroPython library to calibrate and use a sound sensor KY038, including clap counter functionality.

##### Python Libraries

- [MicroPeri](https://github.com/c0d3st0rm/microperi) - Run Python programs on your computer with the same micro:bit MicroPython API and connecting a micro:bit as an external peripheral device or sensor.
- [microbit_stub](https://github.com/casnortheast/microbit_stub) - A Python package that emulates the micro:bit as defined by the micro:bit MicroPython API.
- [bluezero](https://github.com/ukBaz/python-bluezero) - A Python package to interface with Bluetooth devices, with examples for the micro:bit.

##### Python Programming Tools

- [uFlash](https://github.com/ntoll/uflash/) - A utility for flashing the micro:bit with Python scripts and the MicroPython runtime.
- [MicroFs](https://github.com/ntoll/microfs) - A simple command line tool and module for interacting with the limited file system provided by MicroPython on the micro:bit.
- [Jupyter kernel for the micro:bit](https://github.com/takluyver/ubit_kernel) - This package allows Jupyter interfaces to run MicroPython code directly on the micro:bit.

### JavaScript and PXT

- [PXT](https://pxt.microbit.org) - The Programming eXperience Toolkit for the micro:bit provides an in-browser emulator, a Blocks interface, and JavaScript (TypeScript) editor.
- [Espruino JavaScript](http://www.espruino.com/MicroBit) - A JavaScript interpreter for microcontrollers. It also offers a WebIDE for written code and blocks.
- [Code Kingdoms](https://www.microbit.co.uk/app/#create:tomwku) - A graphical interface that provides a transitioning experience from 'drag and drop' to text-based programming (JavaScript).

##### Node.js Libraries

- [node-bbc-microbit](https://github.com/sandeepmistry/node-bbc-microbit) - Control a micro:bit from Node.js using BLE.

##### JavaScript Programming Tools

- [PXT Command Line Tool](https://www.pxt.io/cli) - Use the command line to program the micro:bit with PXT JavaScript. You can also run a local version of the PXT online editor.

### C/C++

- [C/C++ runtime](https://lancaster-university.github.io/microbit-docs/) - Guidance on how to start using the runtime in C/C++ including full documentation of the APIs, drivers, and types that make up the micro:bit runtime. Bluetooth documentation includes a link to the original `*.hex` file that ships on the micro:bit devices.
- [Arduino nRF5](https://github.com/sandeepmistry/arduino-nRF5/) - Arduino Core for Nordic Semiconductor nRF5 based boards, including the micro:bit.

##### C/C++ Editors

- [Micro:Pi](https://github.com/Bottersnike/Micro-Pi) - A C/C++ editor with serial monitor and deploy functionality. Written in Python with an installer (ATM Linux only, but could be manually installed in any OS) that includes all dependencies.

##### C/C++ Libraries

- [OneWire](https://github.com/adamboardman/microbit-onewire) - micro:bit OneWire Library, based upon Erik Olieman's mbed DS1820 lib.
- [neopixel](https://github.com/elmorg/uBit_neopixel) - Library for using neopixels with the BBC micro:bit.

### Other Languages

- [Touch Develop](https://www.microbit.co.uk/create-code#touchdevelopEditor) - A flexible, text-based programming language with an interactive visual component.
- [Rust on BBC micro:bit](https://github.com/SimonSapin/rust-on-bbc-microbit) - Describes the experience and steps of compiling Rust code for the micro:bit with and without interaction with the runtime DAL.
- [Forth](https://wiki.forth-ev.de/doku.php/en:projects:microbit:start) - Forth, a stack-based language, for the BBC micro:bit.


## Programming Tools

- [Vagrant C/C++ Development Environment](https://github.com/carlosperate/microbit-dev-env) - With a single command it creates a virtual machine with all the toolchain required to compile and flash C/C++ programs to the micro:bit (including  MicroPython).
- [micro:bit uploader](https://www.touchdevelop.com/microbituploader) - Windows application that monitors your Downloads folder and flashes any new programs to the micro:bit.
- [Kodu Controller](http://www.kodugamelab.com/bbc-microbit/) - Enables interacting with the microbit from Kodu Game Lab.
- [Simulink Coder Support Package](http://uk.mathworks.com/matlabcentral/fileexchange/60273-simulink-coder-support-package-for-bbc-micro-bit-board) - This package enables you to create Simulink models and automatically generate and deploy code on the micro:bit.
- [microbit for Dyalog APL on the Pi](https://github.com/APLPi/microbit) - Tools for using the micro:bit (via MicroPython serial connection) with the Dyalog APL programming language on the Raspberry Pi.
- [Gobot](https://gobot.io/documentation/platforms/microbit/) - Framework for the Go programming language to program devices in the real world. It can now the micro:bit via Bluetooth LE.
- [Microbit Unity](https://github.com/bLiGM/Microbit-Unity) - Unity scripts to allow the BBC Microbit to be used as a Unity Controller.
- [Haxe node BBC micro:bit](https://github.com/MatthijsKamstra/hx-node-bbc-microbit) - Control a BBC micro:bit from Node.js using BLE and the Haxe programming language.


## Mobile Apps

- [Official Android App](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.samsung.microbit) ([Source Code](https://github.com/Samsung/microbit)) - Pair, program and flash programs to the micro:bit via Bluetooth.
- [Official iOS App](https://itunes.apple.com/gb/app/micro-bit/id1092687276) - Pair, program and flash programs to the micro:bit via Bluetooth.
- [micro:bit Blue](https://github.com/microbit-foundation/microbit-blue) ([Android](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.bluetooth.mwoolley.microbitbledemo)) - Contains a series demos for interacting with the microbit using Bluetooth.
- [Bitty Software Apps](http://www.bittysoftware.com/apps.html) - A diverse collection of Android and iOS apps, going from data logging to audio pranks, you'll certainly find something of interest. 
- [Insight Mr Bit](http://www.insightresources.co.uk/microbit/page63.html) ([iOS](https://itunes.apple.com/gb/app/insight-mr-bit/id1175915875)) - Create simple programs in plain English to control the BBC micro:bit to do lots of useful things.


## Interface Chip

The USB Interface Chip is the microcontroller placed close to the battery connector. It provides the USB mass storage capability to load the micro:bit firmware using the Operating System file explorer.

- [microbit.org Developer Community Info](http://tech.microbit.org/software/daplink-interface/) - This micro:bit Developer Community page contains information about the Interface Chip DAPlink and the USB interface.
- [DAPLink on micro:bit](https://www.mbed.com/en/development/hardware/prototyping-production/daplink/daplink-on-kl26z/) - The DAPLink is the default software running on the Interface Chip, this page contains information, update instructions, and the latest firmware.
- [DAPLink source code](https://github.com/mbedmicro/DAPLink) - Source code for the mbed DAPLink, contains the build configuration for the micro:bit.
- [J-Link OB Firmware](https://www.segger.com/bbc-micro-bit.html) - Offers the same flashing functionality than the DAPLink and expands it to include J-Link debugging.


## Hardware

Nothing yet.


## CAD & 3D Printing

- [Kitronik CAD Resources](https://www.kitronik.co.uk/blog/bbc-microbit-cad-resources/) - micro:bit CAD model from Kitronik.
- [Proto-PIC CAD Resources](https://www.proto-pic.co.uk/micro-bit-resources.html) - Proto-PIC products CAD resources.
- [Microbot Case](http://www.thingiverse.com/thing:1434797) - 3D printed case for the micro:bit in the shape of a robot.
- [micro:bit Stand](http://www.thingiverse.com/thing:2144500) - 3D printed stand for the micro:bit.
- [micro:bit Rover](https://www.myminifactory.com/object/microbit-rover-27013) - 3D printable parts to build a micro:bit robot rover.
- [Binary Watch](https://www.myminifactory.com/object/binary-watch-15257) - 3D printed watch case and strap for the micro:bit.


## Projects

All these projects contain steps and resources required for reproduction.

- [microbit.co.uk Site Index](https://www.microbit.co.uk/index) - The microbit.co.uk website contains an extensive list with all their projects and tutorials.
- [hackster micro:bit community](https://www.hackster.io/micro-bit/projects) - This hackster community contains user submitted projects for the micro:bit.
- [PXT Projects](https://pxt.microbit.org/projects) - List of micro:bit projects you can do with the PXT editor.
- [Quiz:bit](https://github.com/lancaster-university/quiz-bit) - micro:bit programs and a matching application for providing a quiz-voter-style service using micro:bits as the controls.
- [JUST DO IoT](https://hackaday.io/project/12164-just-do-iot) - Connect the micro:Bit to the LoRaWAN network, includes open source hardware microbit connector board.
- [Micro:Bob](https://hackaday.io/project/8643-microbob) - A simple bipedal robot controlled by a micro:bit.
- Coffee Timer ([1](https://www.norwegiancreations.com/2016/09/coffee-timer-part-1-the-first-prototype-based-on-the-bbc-microbit/), [2](https://www.norwegiancreations.com/2016/10/coffee-timer-part-2-low-power-wireless-on-the-bbc-microbit/), [3](https://www.norwegiancreations.com/2016/11/coffee-timer-part-3-enclosures/)) - Three part article describing how to augment a coffee maker with an micro:bit indicator, options for low power communication, and creating a custom enclosure.
- [Thermal Printer](http://www.suppertime.co.uk/blogmywiki/2016/12/microbit-thermal/) - Connecting and using a Sparkfun thermal till-roll printer.
- [Telescopic Light Sword](https://www.myminifactory.com/object/telescopic-lightsword-with-micro-bit-14598) - Project shows how to make your own Light Sword with the micro:bit, electronics, and 3D printed parts.
- [Micro Simon](http://mrtomsworld.blogspot.co.uk/2017/01/micro-simon.html) - Programming and connecting a micro:bit to a vintage MB Simon game.
- [Connecting a thermal printer to a BBC microbit](http://www.suppertime.co.uk/blogmywiki/2016/12/microbit-thermal/) - Connecting the micro:bit to a thermal till-roll printer to print a random poems or Christmas cracker jokes.
- [Alexa Weather On micro:bit](https://www.hackster.io/chen-tiebiao/weather-on-micro-bit-c79c19) - Creating an Amazon Alexa skill where the current weather can be asked and the result displayed on the micro:bit.
- [BBC Microbit Balloon Tracker](http://www.daveakerman.com/?p=2019) - Making a ballon tracker with a micro:bit connected to GPS and a LoRa transceiver to track and transmit its position.


## Articles

Useful Articles for developing on the micro:bit.

- [Getting Started Microbit & Microsoft’s new www.codethemicrobit.com Environment](https://blogs.msdn.microsoft.com/uk_faculty_connection/2016/08/01/getting-started-microbit-microsofts-new-www-codethemicrobit-com-environment/)
- [Offline C/C++ Development With The Micro:bit](http://www.i-programmer.info/programming/hardware/9654-offline-cc-development-with-the-microbit-.html)
- [Sending 'commands' from a micro:bit over Bluetooth](http://bluetooth-mdw.blogspot.co.uk/2016/07/sending-commands-from-microbit-over.html)
- [MultiWingSpan](http://www.multiwingspan.co.uk/micro.php) - A large collection of examples, instructions, and direction on how to use electronic components.
- [Modelling micro:bit data with the Bitty Data Logger App](https://www.stem.org.uk/elibrary/community-resource/289686/modelling-microbit-data-bitty-data-logger-app)
- [Getting Started with the micro:bit Bluetooth IO Pin Service](https://ukbaz.github.io/howto/ubit_ble_profile.html)
- [Using MQTT-SN over BLE with the BBC micro:bit](https://blog.benjamin-cabe.com/2017/01/16/using-mqtt-sn-over-ble-with-the-bbc-microbit)
- [The First Video Game on the BBC Micro:bit [probably]](https://hackernoon.com/the-first-video-game-on-the-bbc-micro-bit-probably-4175fab44da8) - Creating a game for the micro:bit, the MicroPython changes needed to increase performance and a general profile of its resources.


## Videos

- [MicroMonsters](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCK2DviDexh_Er2QYZerZyZQ) - A YouTube channel with tutorials to learn to code with your family.
- [micro:bit and Bluetooth](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLYOCnwH2UtBzhJ2nvn_DM3itz6GNVwrDu) - YouTube playlist with Martin Woolley's Bluetooth videos.
- [Video Series from The Maker Movies](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLD0HD_3AJljXDWoasq2x5gHmkKeV7cc-P) - A list of short, introductory videos for anyone wanting to get started with the micro:bit.


## Teaching Resources

- [microbit.org Teaching Resources](https://www.microbit.org/teach/)
- [IET micro:bit Teaching Resources](http://faraday.theiet.org/stem-activity-days/bbc-microbit/resources/index.cfm)
- [Code Club micro:bit projects](https://www.codeclubprojects.org/en-GB/microbit/)
- [Make with the micro:bit by Technology Will Save Us](http://make.techwillsaveus.com/bbc-microbit)
- [Grok Learning](https://groklearning.com/microbit/) - Provides an online MicroPython code editor, Blockly visual programming, full micro:bit simulator, curriculum-aligned teaching material and auto-marked problems.
- [Microbit For Primary Schools](http://mb4ps.co.uk)
- [101 Computing BBC micro:bit category](http://www.101computing.net/category/bbc-microbit/) - Computing challenges with the micro:bit to boost your programming skills or spice up your teaching of computer science.
- [Micro:bit Maths](https://microbitmathsblog.wordpress.com) - A blog exploring the BBC micro:bit in mathematics education.
- [micro:bit of Things](https://sites.google.com/view/microbitofthings/) - Notes on micro:bit project ideas for Key Stage 2 and 3.
- [The Brooke Primary School Space Programme](http://www.brooke.norfolk.sch.uk/brooke-space-programme/) - Project page documenting Brooke Primary School pupil's upcoming journey for launching a BBC micro:bit (on its own) into near-space, with experiments and sensor measurements.
- [FunWithMicrobit](https://github.com/MicrobitPolska/FunWithMicrobit) - FunWithMicrobit is a 6 hours workshop made by kids for the kids.
- [Year 7 micro:bit lessons](http://www.jonwitts.co.uk/year-7-microbit) - by Jon Witts, used to introduce students to the micro:bit and Python.
- [UCL’s BBC Micro:bit Tutorials](http://microbit-challenges.readthedocs.io/en/latest/) - Tutorial sheets that introduce micro:bit features with practical examples provided to invite students to design solutions to problems.
- [BBC micro:bit and Kodu Interact](https://www.kodugamelab.com/resources/#microbit) - Kodu is a visual programming language made specifically for creating games and allow interaction with the micro:bit.


## Miscellaneous

- [microbit Fritzing Part](https://github.com/topshed/FritzingParts) - Richard Hayler collection of Fritzing parts contains a model for the micro:bit.
- [micro:bit broadcast](https://microbit-broadcast.embeddedlog.com) - Free newsletter to stay up-to-date with the latest micro:bit news, articles, projects, and resources.
- [micro:bit-o-matic](https://pycomic.github.io/microbit.html) - Easily create micro:bit illustrations with custom LED matrix messages.


## License & Trademarks

[![CC0](http://mirrors.creativecommons.org/presskit/buttons/88x31/svg/cc-zero.svg)](https://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/)

To the extent possible under law, the authors have waived all copyright and related or neighbouring rights to this work.

This projects is not endorsed, sponsored or associated with the BBC. "BBC", "micro:bit", and their logos are trademarks of the BBC.
